i18n/RU/docusaurus-plugin-content-docs/current/3_HowToPlay/Guides/General_guides/Intents.md, before:

# Intents
The intent selector of the UI has four modes: 'Help**, **Disarm**, **Grab**, and **Harm'.

##  Help Intent 
The 'Help** intent is used for helpful interactions. For example, if someone is in critical condition, clicking on them (with an empty hand) will have you perform CPR. You'll also apply medication if you're holding any. In addition, if you have your intent on Help, and walk into someone who also has their intent on Help, you'll swap places with each other (instead of just pushing them in the drection you're moving). **Be careful' - if you have an item in your hand that isn't designed to help someone, you'll still attack them with it!

##  Disarm Intent 
The 'Disarm** intent is used to nonlethally disarm and incapacitate people. If you click on someone with an empty hand while on Disarm, you'll **shove' them.

It's also important to note that 'these actions only work if you're clicking on the target with an empty hand', just as with all intents.

##  Grab Intent 
The 'Grab** intent allows you to, as it says, grab people. Grabbing someone with Grab intent works differently from control-clicking. If you click on someone with an empty hand, you'll have a **passive** grab, which makes you pull people. You stop dragging the same way you stop pulling. While on passive grab, clicking on the person once more upgrades it to an **aggressive' grab. The target can press "resist" to try to escape from an aggressive or above grab level. 

##  Harm Intent 
The 'Harm' intent will harm. On standing targets you will attempt to punch them. The chance to miss a punch increases the more stamina and brute damage you have. Punching has a chance to knockdown the target. The more brute and stamina damage the target has, the longer the target will be knocked down. If using harm intent on prone targets you will kick them.

  {# {% include 'html/rolesnavbar.md' %} #}

Commit message:

Pieds de page fonctionnnel #18
- Change tables padding in custom.css
- Convert rolesnavbar.md doc in Jobs.md
- Add Jobs.md in all docs than contains {# {% include 'html/rolesnavbar.md' %} #}

i18n/RU/docusaurus-plugin-content-docs/current/3_HowToPlay/Guides/General_guides/Intents.md, after:

# Intents
The intent selector of the UI has four modes: 'Help**, **Disarm**, **Grab**, and **Harm'.

##  Help Intent
The 'Help** intent is used for helpful interactions. For example, if someone is in critical condition, clicking on them (with an empty hand) will have you perform CPR. You'll also apply medication if you're holding any. In addition, if you have your intent on Help, and walk into someone who also has their intent on Help, you'll swap places with each other (instead of just pushing them in the drection you're moving). **Be careful' - if you have an item in your hand that isn't designed to help someone, you'll still attack them with it!

##  Disarm Intent
The 'Disarm** intent is used to nonlethally disarm and incapacitate people. If you click on someone with an empty hand while on Disarm, you'll **shove' them.

It's also important to note that 'these actions only work if you're clicking on the target with an empty hand', just as with all intents.

##  Grab Intent
The 'Grab** intent allows you to, as it says, grab people. Grabbing someone with Grab intent works differently from control-clicking. If you click on someone with an empty hand, you'll have a **passive** grab, which makes you pull people. You stop dragging the same way you stop pulling. While on passive grab, clicking on the person once more upgrades it to an **aggressive' grab. The target can press "resist" to try to escape from an aggressive or above grab level.

##  Harm Intent
The 'Harm' intent will harm. On standing targets you will attempt to punch them. The chance to miss a punch increases the more stamina and brute damage you have. Punching has a chance to knockdown the target. The more brute and stamina damage the target has, the longer the target will be knocked down. If using harm intent on prone targets you will kick them.

  <br/>
<br/>
<br/>

import Jobs from '/docs/3_HowToPlay/Jobs/Jobs.md'

<Jobs />
