docs/3_HowToPlay/Jobs/Command_roles/Head-of-Personnel.md, before:

# Head of Personnel
**Role type:** <font color= "#45467d">Command</font>. **Access level:** <font color="#734823">Cargo</font>, Service, <font color="#45467d">HoP's office</font> and <font color="#45467d">terminal</font>, <font color="#45467d">Command area</font>.'' **''Difficulty:** <font color="Yellow">Medium</font>. Colloquial name: "HoP"

## Overview


The Head of Personnel, also commonly referred to as the HoP, is one of the command roles on the station, and arguably one of the most important jobs on the station, with the ability to change people's access levels using the terminal in their office, taking over for the captain when they inevitably get stabbed in the back, and keeping [Ian](Ian.md) the dog alive at all costs.
### Lawful Neutral

The job of the HoP is relatively simple: sit in your office, change people's job or access levels if they ask for it for good reasons, and resist the urge to give yourself or [other](Clown.md) [people](Assistant.md) all-access cards. On top of that, you're also the one making sure the Service roles are keeping the station running, and that [Cargo](Cargo-Technician.md) isn't ordering in guns to help [Cargonia](Cargonia.md) become an independent station-state. However, your job can get slightly hectic; 


### Officer by interim 
In the absence of the [Captain](Captain.md),( missing, dead, asleep, absent ) you must, by interim, ensure the functions of it, until the role can be occupied or that you designate someone for that.  it's your job to take over their position until they are potentially cloned.
The same goes for the positions of Head of Department such as the HOS
You will need to **do your best** to ensure this function. for the good of the station.
Sometimes a HoS, or a department head come later than you.
**You will have to give him  all the objects that belong to it.**


#### list of potential Suspects in case of death of the captain
[Trator](Traitor.md) [Nukie](Nuclear%20Operative.md) [Cargonia](Cargonia.md)

unless the persone who killed them isn't smart, this is not a simple task, there are many who may want you dead for one reason or another.

### Crew Relations 

With your typically lighter workload compared to the other heads of staff, its a good idea to pay close attention to comms. It never hurts having a strong grasp of the what's going on around the station, and your job is to make sure [Cargo](Quartermaster.md) is getting what the station needs, the [janitor](Janitor.md) is cleaning floors, and the [Cook](Cook.md) and [Botanist](Botanist.md) are delivering food. 

If you want to maintain a good relationship with the other heads, ask them over the command channel for their opinion before assigning someone to their department. You will be held accountable if you assign engineering an [assistant](Assistant.md) that melts down the [Reactor](Guide-to-the-nuclear-reactor.md).

Once you have become familiar with the post, you may have noticed that the [Captain](Captain.md) has a sweet ass pistol and all you get is a lame (but extremely robust) taser. It might be tempting to bump your clearance to all access and take a trip to the armory to get yourself something that has a bit more bite. It is recommended that you do not do this. The Captain is the ultimate authority on the station, and that comes with rights and privileges that others do not have, including you. The HoP cannot bear lethal weaponry unless given explicit permission by the Captain or the station is on either <font color= "blue">Blue</font> alert or <font color= "red">Red</font> alert. That isn't to say that this limitation is not comprehensively enforced by Security, but do not be surprised if you get reported by the [Warden](Warden.md) for breaking and entering into the armory.


### Emergencies 

With you being second in command and the station being as dangerous as it is, you will often be the one who has to call the emergency shuttle when the [Captain](Captain.md) is occupied or dead. If they are still kicking, you should get permission from them first before calling the shuttle. If they aren't, then its your call whether an evacuation is necessary, with the same weight and responsibility the Captain bears with the decision. 

If the shuttle has been called DO NOT FORGET TO BRING [IAN](Ian.md) WITH YOU. Ian is a trained dog, so you can say, "Ian follow!" and Ian will follow behind you somewhat competently (doors give him a hard time). when you have him safe in the shuttle, you can say "Ian stay!" to make him stop. Because he is your dog, only you, the HoP, can do this. 

### Inhuman Resources ([traitor](traitor.md) HoP)

needless to say, being a [traitor](traitor.md) as the HoP is pretty tight. It's no surprise that the second-in-command on the station makes for a fairly easy time completing traitor objectives. With the ability to give yourself the valued AA and the authority as a head, you can go anywhere you need to with ease. Your direct authority over cargo can also come in handy, as you can tell the [QM](quartermaster.md) to order you whatever you need.

  {# {% include 'html/rolesnavbar.md' %} #}

Commit message:

Pieds de page fonctionnnel #18
- Change tables padding in custom.css
- Convert rolesnavbar.md doc in Jobs.md
- Add Jobs.md in all docs than contains {# {% include 'html/rolesnavbar.md' %} #}

docs/3_HowToPlay/Jobs/Command_roles/Head-of-Personnel.md, after:

# Head of Personnel
**Role type:** <font color= "#45467d">Command</font>. **Access level:** <font color="#734823">Cargo</font>, Service, <font color="#45467d">HoP's office</font> and <font color="#45467d">terminal</font>, <font color="#45467d">Command area</font>.'' **''Difficulty:** <font color="Yellow">Medium</font>. Colloquial name: "HoP"

## Overview


The Head of Personnel, also commonly referred to as the HoP, is one of the command roles on the station, and arguably one of the most important jobs on the station, with the ability to change people's access levels using the terminal in their office, taking over for the captain when they inevitably get stabbed in the back, and keeping [Ian](Ian.md) the dog alive at all costs.
### Lawful Neutral

The job of the HoP is relatively simple: sit in your office, change people's job or access levels if they ask for it for good reasons, and resist the urge to give yourself or [other](Clown.md) [people](Assistant.md) all-access cards. On top of that, you're also the one making sure the Service roles are keeping the station running, and that [Cargo](Cargo-Technician.md) isn't ordering in guns to help [Cargonia](Cargonia.md) become an independent station-state. However, your job can get slightly hectic;


### Officer by interim
In the absence of the [Captain](Captain.md),( missing, dead, asleep, absent ) you must, by interim, ensure the functions of it, until the role can be occupied or that you designate someone for that.  it's your job to take over their position until they are potentially cloned.
The same goes for the positions of Head of Department such as the HOS
You will need to **do your best** to ensure this function. for the good of the station.
Sometimes a HoS, or a department head come later than you.
**You will have to give him  all the objects that belong to it.**


#### list of potential Suspects in case of death of the captain
[Trator](Traitor.md) [Nukie](Nuclear%20Operative.md) [Cargonia](Cargonia.md)

unless the persone who killed them isn't smart, this is not a simple task, there are many who may want you dead for one reason or another.

### Crew Relations

With your typically lighter workload compared to the other heads of staff, its a good idea to pay close attention to comms. It never hurts having a strong grasp of the what's going on around the station, and your job is to make sure [Cargo](Quartermaster.md) is getting what the station needs, the [janitor](Janitor.md) is cleaning floors, and the [Cook](Cook.md) and [Botanist](Botanist.md) are delivering food.

If you want to maintain a good relationship with the other heads, ask them over the command channel for their opinion before assigning someone to their department. You will be held accountable if you assign engineering an [assistant](Assistant.md) that melts down the [Reactor](Guide-to-the-nuclear-reactor.md).

Once you have become familiar with the post, you may have noticed that the [Captain](Captain.md) has a sweet ass pistol and all you get is a lame (but extremely robust) taser. It might be tempting to bump your clearance to all access and take a trip to the armory to get yourself something that has a bit more bite. It is recommended that you do not do this. The Captain is the ultimate authority on the station, and that comes with rights and privileges that others do not have, including you. The HoP cannot bear lethal weaponry unless given explicit permission by the Captain or the station is on either <font color= "blue">Blue</font> alert or <font color= "red">Red</font> alert. That isn't to say that this limitation is not comprehensively enforced by Security, but do not be surprised if you get reported by the [Warden](Warden.md) for breaking and entering into the armory.


### Emergencies

With you being second in command and the station being as dangerous as it is, you will often be the one who has to call the emergency shuttle when the [Captain](Captain.md) is occupied or dead. If they are still kicking, you should get permission from them first before calling the shuttle. If they aren't, then its your call whether an evacuation is necessary, with the same weight and responsibility the Captain bears with the decision.

If the shuttle has been called DO NOT FORGET TO BRING [IAN](Ian.md) WITH YOU. Ian is a trained dog, so you can say, "Ian follow!" and Ian will follow behind you somewhat competently (doors give him a hard time). when you have him safe in the shuttle, you can say "Ian stay!" to make him stop. Because he is your dog, only you, the HoP, can do this.

### Inhuman Resources ([traitor](traitor.md) HoP)

needless to say, being a [traitor](traitor.md) as the HoP is pretty tight. It's no surprise that the second-in-command on the station makes for a fairly easy time completing traitor objectives. With the ability to give yourself the valued AA and the authority as a head, you can go anywhere you need to with ease. Your direct authority over cargo can also come in handy, as you can tell the [QM](quartermaster.md) to order you whatever you need.

  <br/>
<br/>
<br/>

import Jobs from '/docs/3_HowToPlay/Jobs/Jobs.md'

<Jobs />
